time to head to the Planet dinosaur
files workshop which this week has gone
outdoors it's hard to imagine the damage
that these Carcharodontosaurus would
have cause as they start throwing their
weight around but to get an idea we've
built a Carcharodontosaurus foot now
very specifically shaped to match the
fossilized footprints that have been
found from the real thing it's made of
steel not flesh and bone but hopefully
it's gonna be strong enough for the task
ahead you see I want to attach this to
something that can provide the power and
weight that would have been there with a
real carcharodontosaurus and this big
digger is it a huge hydraulic excavator
35 tons of steel on caterpillar tracks
rich the driver assures me that this
enormous excavator can get my
Carcharodontosaurus foot to step down
with the seven tons of force that the
real thing would have applied with every
stride but I'd grab the back end this is
a heavy to say the least
thing is this job is to attach it to
this digger
that's attached now let's see what kind
of impact a dinosaur like this would
have had on I need something else made
of steel my carcharodontosaurus foot to
tread on a scrap car obviously they
didn't have those 95 million years ago
but it's here to represent the
unfortunate dinosaurs that may have got
in the path of the mighty
carcharodontosaurus right rich can you
give this a big seven ton stump
and I didn't really stand the chance and
I think that's probably what a lot of
dinosaurs that hung around North Africa
95 million years ago felt because weight
is a massive advantage in the battle for
dominance and the Carcharodontosaurus
carried a lot of weight and this one's
angry I'm not sure that that's the kind
of thing covered by car insurance